[Officium]
St. John of Nepomucene, Martyr

[Rank]
St. John of Nepomucene, Martyr;;Duplex II classis;;5;;vide C2a

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. In night's deep shadow and obscurity,
A pure flame lights the temple, bright and still,
Thus at the bidding of the Almighty
God works his holy will.
_
By night is John brought forth to this world,
Stars fall from heaven's height;
By night is John plunged to his martyrdom,
Stars appear to mark his funeral rite.
_
Hence his heart burns with flaming charity,
A strong and ardent love;
Hence from his lips there flows a wondrous
Sweetness, gift of God above.
_
By love he draws the hearts of good men
To salvation's saving shore;
By fear he turns the hearts of sinners
Back from the hellish door.
_
The poor he comforts with his almsgiving,
The forsaken finds relief;
He will not suffer just men to be humbled,
Nor suffer loss of good repute.
_
Through John's great sanctity, O Blessed Trinity,
Grant our minds a holy purity,
And let the reign of charity
Rule our hearts for aye in unity. Amen.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst adorn Thy Church with a new crown of martyrdom through the invincible silence of Blessed John in defence of the sacramental seal: grant that, following his example and aided by his intercession, we may, setting a guard upon our mouths, be numbered among the blessed who have not sinned with their tongue.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
John Nepomucene, born at the town of Nepomuk in Bohemia, whence he took his surname, was the son of parents advanced in years, and his birth was not without a presage of future holiness, for blazing stars appeared marvellously shining above the house at his nativity. When as an infant he fell into grievous sickness, he escaped the danger of death by the help of the Blessed Virgin, to whom his parents had dedicated their son. Nurtured in great piety and educated in fine learning, he spent his boyhood in holy religious exercises: for he delighted greatly in visiting churches and in serving the priests at the altar. Trained in humane letters at Zatec, and in the higher sciences at Prague, he obtained the mastership and laureate in philosophy, theology, and sacred canons. Having been ordained to the priesthood, and rightly prepared by sacred learning for the gaining of souls, he devoted himself entirely to the ministry of the divine word. And when, in extirpating vices and recalling wanderers to the way of salvation, he was bearing abundant fruit by his eloquence and piety, he was numbered among the canons of the metropolitan church of Prague, and soon undertook the province of preaching the Gospel before King Wenceslaus IV that was assigned to him, with such success that the king at John's persuasion did many things, and held his virtues in great honour. Yet the servant of God steadfastly refused the conspicuous dignities that were offered to him, lest he be withdrawn from the proclamation of the divine word.
_

[Responsory4]
R. Sancti tui, Domine, mirabile consecuti sunt iter, servientes præceptis tuis, ut invirentur illæsi in aquis validis:
* Terra apparuit arida, et in Mari Rubro via sine impedimento.
V. Quoniam percussit petram et fluxerunt aquæ et torrentes inundaverunt.
R. Terra apparuit arida, et in Mari Rubro via sine impedimento.

[Lectio5]
Being placed by the king in charge of disbursing royal alms, he was chosen by Queen Joanna as the director of her conscience. But when Wenceslaus had departed from his duty and plunged headlong into vices, and took gravely the supplications and admonitions of his pious spouse, he dared to demand that the secrets entrusted by the queen in the sacramental tribunal to the priest be revealed to him by John. But the minister of God, tempted first by blandishments, then by torments and the squalor of prison, steadfastly withstood the king's wicked desire. Nevertheless, when neither human nor divine right could deter the infuriated Wenceslaus from his execrable purpose, John, foreseeing the supreme agony he knew to be at hand, warned the people in a sermon not obscurely of the coming calamities of the kingdom. He then made his way to the town of Buslawia, where he poured forth earnest prayers before an image of the Blessed Virgin of ancient veneration, imploring heavenly aid to fight the good fight. Returning thence in the evening on the vigil of the Lord's Ascension, the king beheld him from a window and summoned him; and when he pressed him more urgently, and threatened imminent submersion in the waters of the Moldava if he persisted in his resistance, John with invincible constancy repelled the king's threats and terrors. And so by royal command he was cast into the river Moldava, which flows through Prague, and thus, at night, obtained the illustrious crown of martyrdom.
_

[Responsory5]
R. Verbera carnificum non timuerunt Sancti Dei, morientes pro Christi nomine:
* Ut heredes fierent in domo Domini.
V. Tradiderunt corpora sua propter Deum ad supplicia.
R. Ut heredes fierent in domo Domini.

[Lectio6]
The sacrilegious deed done in secret, and the glory of the Martyr, were made manifest by God through a notable miracle. For when the lifeless body began to be carried downstream, burning torches appeared floating and moving above the waters. Wherefore his body was recovered from the river the following morning, and the canons, fearing not at all the king's wrath, brought it in solemn procession into the metropolitan church and committed it to burial. As the memory of the invincible priest grew from day to day through miracles, and especially by the great veneration of the faithful who were in peril of reputation, after more than three hundred years, in a juridical examination of the body that had lain so long beneath the earth, his tongue was found incorrupt and living. Exhibited to judges delegated by the Apostolic See six years later, it swelled up by a new miracle and changed its dim redness into crimson. These and other signs having been duly proved, the Supreme Pontiff Benedict XIII, on the nineteenth day of March in the year of salvation 1729, enrolled in the catalogue of the holy Martyrs this first champion of the sacramental seal, who sealed the inviolability of its secret with his blood.
_

[Responsory6]
R. Tamquam aurum in fornace probavit electos Dominus, et quasi holocausti hostiam accepit illos; et in tempore erit respectus illorum:
* Quoniam donum et pax est electis Dei.
V. Qui confidunt in illum, intellegent veritatem: et fideles in dilectione acquiescent illi.
R. Quoniam donum et pax est electis Dei.
&Gloria
R. Quoniam donum et pax est electis Dei.

[Lectio94]
John, born at Nepomuk in Bohemia, after earning the degrees of philosophy, theology, and sacred canons, was ordained priest and appointed court preacher before King Wenceslaus IV. Queen Joanna chose him as the director of her conscience. When Wenceslaus demanded that John reveal to him the secrets of the queen's confession, the minister of God withstood the king's wicked desire with steadfast constancy, resisting blandishments, torments, and the squalor of prison alike; and by the king's command he was cast at night into the river Moldava, thus obtaining the illustrious palm of martyrdom. Benedict XIII was the first to enroll this champion of the sacramental seal, who sealed its secret inviolability with his blood, in the catalogue of the holy Martyrs.
&teDeum
