[Officium]
Ss. Ursula and Companions, Virgins and Martyrs

[Rank]
Ss. Ursula and Companions, Virgins and Martyrs;;Duplex;;3;;vide C6b

[Lectio94]
When Attila, leader of the Huns, returning to Pannonia from his first incursion into Gaul, where he had been routed at Châlons, drew near the most noble city of Cologne before crossing the Rhine; and, out of hatred for the Catholic faith which greatly flourished there, he laid it waste with plunder and slaughter. The most savage of the barbarians, burning with lust, fell upon the virgins and maidens who dwelt there, having emigrated from Britain: among whom most illustrious was the virgin named Ursula, who exhorted her companions to suffer all torments rather than permit the loss of their virginal purity. When this noble company of virgins most steadfastly resisted the Huns, some were slain by the sword, others pierced with arrows, others beaten with clubs, and thus they consummated their martyrdom. But Ursula herself, falling as a glorious victim upon as it were a heap of heavenly pearls in her companions, adorned with the purple of blood shed for faith and chastity, led in triumph to heaven an army made glorious with the twin crowns of virginity and faith. After the savage storm of the barbarians had passed, the surviving Colognians gathered as precious pledges the bodies of the Virgins and of the other citizens and Martyrs, and buried them with the highest honour. In the field reddened with the blood of the Virgins, wherein their sacred remains were laid to rest, a basilica was built, called after the holy Virgins by the middle of the seventh century, out of reverence for whom no human body was thereafter buried therein. Having become a monastery in the ninth century, it received at the beginning of the tenth century nuns fleeing from the Hungarians, being ever generously endowed and devoutly visited by the bishops of the famous city. Even to this day the walls of the oft-restored church are seen adorned on every side with the shrines of the Martyrs, while the greater part of the relics lie hidden beneath the floor and within the walls of the choir; and in the adjacent oratory are seen the countless heads of the virgins, some bearing the traces of martyrdom, others covered with blood-stained hair. These sacred pledges in former times the faithful followed with pious pilgrimages.
&teDeum

[Oratio]
Grant us, we beseech Thee, O Lord our God, to venerate with unceasing devotion the triumphs of Thy holy Virgins and Martyrs Ursula and her Companions: that what we are not able to celebrate with worthy minds, we may at least frequent with humble service.
$Per Dominum
