[Rank]
Our Lady of Guadalupe;;Duplex I classis;;6;;ex C11

[Ant Vespera]
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, clear as the sun, fair as the moon, comely as Jerusalem?;;109
The daughters of Sion * saw her flowering with blossoms of roses, and called her most blessed.;;112
Flowers have appeared * in our land: we praise thee, Holy Mother of God.;;121
Sing ye to him * a new canticle: Declare his glory among the Gentiles.;;126
Thou art * the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of thy people.;;147

[Ant Magnificat]
I have chosen and made holy this place; * That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.

[Oratio]
O God, who hast placed us under the special patronage of the most Blessed Virgin Mary, and hast been pleased to shower perpetual blessings upon us: grant to Thy suppliants; that, as we are brought joy on earth by the commemoration today, we may enjoy her sight in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Sancti/12-08

[Ant Matutinum]
From the rising of the sun * even to the going down thereof, my name is great among the Gentiles.;;8
I dwelt in the highest places, * and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.;;18
I was found * by them that sought me not: I appeared openly to them that asked not after me.;;23
A great sign * appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet.;;44
The people that walked * in darkness have seen a great light: to them that dwelt in the region of the shadow of death, light is risen.;;45
All the ends of the earth * have seen the salvation of our God.;;86
Mary, the tabernacle of God, * is in the midst of His city, and shall not be moved.;;95
Thou wentest forth * for the salvation of thy people, for salvation with thy Christ.;;96
Glorious things * are said of thee, O City of God: the Lord hath founded thee in the holy mountains.;;97

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. The Lord hath made known His salvation.
R. In the sight of the Gentiles He hath revealed His glory.

[Lectio1]
From the Book of Ecclesiasticus
!Cap. 24, 5-31
I came out of the mouth of the Most High, the firstborn before all creatures: I made that in the heavens there should rise light that never faileth, and as a cloud I covered all the earth: I dwelt in the highest places, and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud. I alone have compassed the circuit of heaven, and have penetrated into the bottom of the deep, and have walked in the waves of the sea, and have stood in all the earth: and in every people, and in every nation I have had the chief rule: and by my power I have trodden under my feet the hearts of all the high and low: and in all these I sought rest, and I shall abide in the inheritance of the Lord. Then the Creator of all things commanded, and said to me: and He that made me rested in my tabernacle, and He said to me: Let thy dwelling be in Jacob, and thy inheritance in Israel, and take root in my elect.

[Responsory1]
R. I saw the beautiful one rise up like a dove above the streams of waters: whose raiment breathed forth a most precious fragrance: * And, as in the days of spring, roses and lilies of the valley encompassed her round about.
V. Who is this that goeth up through the desert like a pillar of smoke, from the aromatical spices of myrrh and frankincense?
R. And, as in the days of spring, roses and lilies of the valley encompassed her round about.

[Lectio2]
From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before Him. And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem. And I took root in an honourable people, and in the portion of my God is His inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of saints. I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on Mount Sion: I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho: as a fair olive tree in the plains, and as a plane tree by the water in the streets, was I exalted. I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon and aromatical balm: I yielded a sweet odour like the best myrrh: and I perfumed my dwelling as storax, and galbanum, and onyx, and aloes, and as the frankincense not cut, and my odour is as the purest balm.

[Responsory2]
R. Who is this that riseth like the dawn ascending, fair as the moon, resplendent as the sun: * Terrible as an army set in array?
V. Thou art all fair, O daughter of Sion, and sweet, fair as the moon, resplendent as the sun.
R. Terrible as an army set in array?

[Lectio3]
I have stretched out my branches as the turpentine tree, and my branches are of honour and grace. As the vine I have brought forth a pleasant odour: and my flowers are the fruit of honour and riches. I am the mother of fair love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope. In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue. Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits: for my spirit is sweet above honey, and my inheritance above honey and the honeycomb. My memory is unto everlasting generations. They that eat me, shall yet hunger: and they that drink me, shall yet thirst. He that hearkeneth to me, shall not be confounded: and they that work in me, shall not sin: they that explain me shall have life everlasting.

[Responsory3]
R. Who is she that goeth forth as the sun, and fair as Jerusalem? * The daughters of Sion saw her, and called her blessed, and the queens praised her.
V. And, as in the days of spring, roses and lilies of the valley encompassed her round about.
R. The daughters of Sion saw her, and called her blessed, and the queens praised her.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
R. The daughters of Sion saw her, and called her blessed, and the queens praised her.

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. We will go into His tabernacle.
R. We will adore in the place where His feet stood.

[Lectio4]
In the year of restored salvation one thousand five hundred and thirty-one, the God-bearing Virgin showed herself to Juan Diego, a devout and simple neophyte, on the hill of Tepeyac near Mexico City, as is handed down by ancient and constant tradition; and, addressing him most lovingly, she bade him go to the Bishop and announce to him that a church was to be built for her there. John de Zumarraga, the Bishop of that place, wishing carefully to ascertain the truth of the matter, put off his answer; and when the neophyte, moved once more by the sight and command of the Most Blessed Virgin, and repeating the errand with tears and entreaties, was urged by him to earnestly seek a sign by which the will of the great Mother of God might be made manifest.

[Responsory4]
R. A great sign appeared in heaven: A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, * And on her head a crown of twelve stars.
V. The foundations thereof are in the holy mountains: the Lord loveth the gates of Sion above all the tabernacles of Jacob.
R. And on her head a crown of twelve stars.

[Lectio5]
While the neophyte was taking a way further removed from the hill of Tepeyac, and hastening to Mexico City to fetch a priest for his uncle, who had been seized by a fatal illness, lest he should lack the last sacraments, the most kind Virgin met him there a third time; she assured the sorrowing man of his uncle's recovery, and bade him gather the loveliest roses, freshly sprung up despite the harshness of the place and the season, and, having arranged them in his cloak, carry them to the Bishop. Diego obeyed her commands; and when the roses were poured out before the Bishop from his cloak, an image of holy Mary, in the very likeness in which she had shown herself on the hill near the city, was seen wondrously depicted upon it. Struck by so great a prodigy, the citizens took care that the sacred image should be duly kept in the Bishop's chapel; and a little later, translated with solemn procession to a shrine built on the hill of Tepeyac, it shines forth in the notable veneration of all peoples.

[Responsory5]
R. Who is this that goeth forth like the dawn ascending, * Fair as the moon, resplendent as the sun?
V. As the rainbow giving light in the bright clouds of glory, and as the flower of roses in the spring of the year.
R. Fair as the moon, resplendent as the sun?

[Lectio6]
Being afterward received into a magnificent temple, to which the Roman Pontiffs added a College of Canons for the splendour of divine worship, it greatly increased the devotion of the Mexican people toward the Mother of God; and for four centuries now it has been honoured by a vast concourse of peoples and of miracles. Wherefore, as a most present help against public and private calamities, the Archbishop of Mexico and the other Bishops of those regions, with the consent of every order, chose her as the chief Patroness of the whole Mexican Nation; and Benedict XIV, by apostolic authority, declared this choice duly made, and granted that an Office and Mass be recited under the title of the Blessed Virgin of Guadalupe. Leo XIII, graciously assenting to the repeated petitions of the Mexican Bishops, and upon the advice of the Congregation of Sacred Rites, allowed this newer Office to be recited, and decreed that the image of the Virgin, famed for prodigies and veneration, be solemnly adorned with a golden crown in his own name and by his own command. This crown the Archbishop of Mexico placed upon the most precious image on the fourth of the Ides of October in the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety-five, before almost all the Bishops of the Republic and many others gathered there from the rest of the parts of America, amid the greatest concourse and rejoicing of the inhabitants and visitors. At length Pius X, wishing to satisfy the desires of the sacred Bishops of Latin America, declared the same most blessed Virgin of Guadalupe the chief Patroness of all Latin America.

[Responsory6]
R. I have chosen and made holy this place; * That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.
V. He hath not done in like manner to every nation: and his judgments he hath not made manifest to them.
R. That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
R. That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Thy sons shall come from afar.
R. And thy daughters shall rise up at thy side.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Cap. 1, 39-47
At that time: And Mary, rising up in those days, went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah. And she entered into the house of Zachary, and saluted Elizabeth. And so on.
_
A Homily by St. Bernard, Abbot
!On the words of the Apocalypse, chapter 12
_
Elizabeth marvelled at the person of her that was coming, saying: Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me? She commended also the voice of her that saluted her, adding: For behold, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy. And she declared blessed the faith of her that believed, saying: Blessed art thou that hast believed. Great indeed were these praises; yet her devout humility, suffering nothing to be kept for herself, poured back all the more upon Him whose benefits in her were being praised.

[Responsory7]
R. O Holy Virgin Mary, happy indeed art thou, and right worthy of all praise: * For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.
V. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God.
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.

[Lectio8]
Thou, she saith, dost magnify the Mother of the Lord, but my soul doth magnify the Lord. Thou dost declare that at my voice the child leaped for joy; but my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour: and he himself also, as the friend of the Bridegroom, rejoiceth at the voice of the Bridegroom. Thou callest me blessed, because I have believed; but the cause of my belief and my blessedness is the regard of the divine goodness from on high; so that from this all generations shall call me the more blessed, because God hath regarded His humble and lowly handmaid. Yet let us not think, brethren, that holy Elizabeth, who spoke indeed by the Spirit, was in this mistaken. Far be it. Blessed indeed is she whom God regarded, and blessed is she who believed. For herein was manifested a great fruit of the divine regard.

[Responsory8]
R. All generations shall call me blessed. * For He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is His name.
V. And his mercy is on them that fear Him, from generation to generation.
R. He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is His name.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
R. He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is His name.

[Lectio9]
For, by the ineffable working of the Spirit that came upon her, so great a magnanimity was joined to so great a humility in the secret chamber of her virgin heart, that neither did so great a humility lessen that magnanimity, nor did so great a magnanimity lessen that humility. But though she was, in her own esteem, so humble, she was none the less magnanimous in her belief in the promise; so that she who reckoned herself nothing but a lowly handmaid did not for a moment doubt that she had been chosen for that unsearchable mystery, and believed that she was soon to become the true Mother of God and of man. Even now, O Mother of mercy, the moon, prostrate and cast down at thy feet, through that very affection of thy most sincere heart, entreats thee with devout supplications, thee who art established as her mediatrix with the Sun of justice, that in thy light she may see light, and through thy intercession may deserve the grace of that Sun, whom thou didst truly love above all things, and who hath clothed thee, robing thee with a garment of glory, and hath set a crown of beauty upon thy head.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
@:Ant Vespera:s/109/92/ s/112/99/ s/121/62/ s/126/210/ s/147/148/

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Prov 8:34-35
v. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors. He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
!From St. Anselm, Bishop of Canterbury
v. Kindly Mother like no other
Free from all corrupting stain,
Thou he preferred who death deterred
Breaking all its bonds in twain.
_
Mercifully give us fully
To rejoice in true light's light,
We who cling to thy feasts bring to
Them joy that is meet and right.
_
May we receive grace to believe,
Pray too that faith's power soar,
And that fragile minds be agile,
Strengthen hope and love still more.
_
Themes of dirges, war and scourges,
Hunger, plagues and massacres,
Far be removed that thou be proved
Dawn of hope for sufferers.
_
Consolation 'gainst frustration
May sad hearts and fetters feel,
Answer the prayers, also the cares
That all sense thy pow'r to heal.
_
Friendly be foe while here below,
Evil-do'rs likewise subdue,
Bringing peaceful indeed gleeful
Times to gladden hearts anew.
_
By thy passion and compassion
Grant us help in all our needs
That forever reigning, never
Cease our lauds for thy Son's deeds.
_
Father true God and Son true God,
God the Holy Spirit too,
Trinity God, Unity God,
Rule forever, as is due. Amen.

[Ant Benedictus]
As the rainbow * giving light in the bright clouds of glory, and as the flower of roses in the spring of the year.
